Adding documentation for append only indices (#9809)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _im-plugin/append-only-index.md

---
layout: default
title: Append-only index
nav_order: 14
redirect_from:
  - /opensearch/append-only-index/
---

# Append-only index

An append-only index is an immutable index that only allows document ingestion (appending) while blocking all updates or deletions after initial document creation. When you enable the append-only setting for an index, OpenSearch prevents any modifications to existing documents. You can only add new documents to the index.

When an index is configured as an append-only index, the following operations will return an error:
- Document update call (Update API)
- Document delete call (Delete API)
- Update by query call
- Delete by query call

> - Bulk API call that include update, delete, or upsert actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Bulk API calls made with the update, delete, or upset actions
```

> - Bulk API calls made with the update, delete, or upsert actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Bulk API calls performed with the update, delete, or upsert actions
```

> - Bulk API call containing an index action with a custom document ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Bulk API calls containing an index action with a custom document ID.
```

---
layout: default

> title: Append-only Index

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Append-only index
```

nav_order: 14
redirect_from:
  - /opensearch/append-only-index/
---

> # Append only index

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Append-only index
```

> An append-only index is an immutable index that only allows document ingestion (appending) while blocking all forms of updates or deletions after initial document creation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An append-only index is an immutable index that only allows document ingestion (appending) while blocking all updates or deletions after initial document creation. When you enable the append-only setting for an index, OpenSearch prevents any modifications to existing documents. You can only add new documents to the index.
```

> When you enable the append-only setting for an index, OpenSearch prevents any modifications to existing documents. You can only add new documents to the index.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> When an index is configured as append-only, the following operations will return an error:

Reviewer 3: Can we also call out restrictions around custom _id?

Author: This is added in the operations that is blocked in bulk call:
```
Any index action with a custom document ID
```

> When an index is configured as append-only, the following operations will return an error:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When an index is configured as an append-only index, the following operations will return an error:
```

- Document update call (Update API)
- Document delete call (Delete API)
- Update by query call
- Delete by query call

> - Bulk API call that include update, delete, or upsert actions

Reviewer 3: Its not the entire api which throws the error, right? only the documents with the denied operations? Can we reword to reflect the same?

Author: Addressed the comments.

> - Bulk API call with an index action with a custom document ID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Bulk API call containing an index action with a custom document ID.
```

> Append-only indices offer several advantages:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Append-only indexes offer several advantages:
```

> - Optimised performance as it eliminates costly updates/delete operations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Optimized performance because they eliminate costly updates/delete operations
```

> - Optimised storage and segment merges as it eliminate soft deletes or version tracking.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Optimized storage and segment merges because they eliminate soft deletes and version tracking
```

> - Enables future optimisations like auto-rollovers and efficient warm tiering.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Future optimizations like auto-rollovers and efficient warm tiering
```

> Ideal use cases of append only indices are immutable workloads like logs, metrics, observability or security event data where we do not modify data once ingested.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Append-only indexes are ideal for immutable workloads, such as those containing log, metric, observability, or security event data, where data is not modified once ingested.
```

## Example usage

> The following example request creates a new index named `my-append-only-index` which has all forms of updates disabled on it:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example request creates a new index named `my-append-only-index` with all updates disabled:
```

> The following example request creates a new index named `my-append-only-index` which has all forms of updates disabled on it:

Author: Addressed the comment.

```json

> PUT /my-append-only-index

Reviewer: Should this be through the `cluster-settings` API?

Author: This is an index level setting.

When an index is configured as an append-only index, the following operations will return an error:
- Document update call (Update API)
- Document delete call (Delete API)
- Update by query call
- Delete by query call
- Bulk API calls performed with the update, delete, or upsert actions
- Bulk API calls containing an index action with a custom document ID

Append-only indexes offer several advantages:
- Optimized performance because they eliminate costly updates/delete operations
- Optimized storage and segment merges because they eliminate soft deletes and version tracking
- Future optimizations like auto-rollovers and efficient warm tiering

Append-only indexes are ideal for immutable workloads, such as those containing log, metric, observability, or security event data, where data is not modified once ingested.

## Example request

The following example request creates a new index named `my-append-only-index` with all updates disabled:

```json
PUT /my-append-only-index
{
  "settings": {
    "index.append_only.enabled": true
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> If you want to append data from an existing index to the new append-only index, use the Reindex API. The following example reindexes documents from a source index (`logs`) into the new append-only index:

Reviewer 3: Yes. thanks for the fix

## Benefits

Append-only indexes offer several advantages:

- Optimized performance by eliminating costly update and delete operations
- Optimized storage and segment merges by eliminating soft deletes and version tracking
- Support for future optimizations like auto-rollovers and efficient warm tiering

Append-only indexes are ideal for immutable workloads, such as those containing log, metric, observability, or security event data, where data is not modified once ingested.

## Creating an append-only index

The following request creates a new index named `my-append-only-index` with all updates disabled:

```json
PUT /my-append-only-index
{
  "settings": {
    "index.append_only.enabled": true
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

After an index is set to append-only, it cannot be changed to another index type.
{: .warning}

If you want to append data from an existing index to the new append-only index, use the Reindex API. The following example reindexes documents from a source index (`logs`) into the new append-only index:

```json
POST /_reindex
{
  "source": {
    "index": "my-source-index"
  },
  "dest": {

>     "index": "my-append-only-index"

Reviewer 3: Earlier change was correct. This looks wrong.

@Naarcha-AWS @RS146BIJAY Looks like changes are being overridden. Could you please see on how to fix them?

Reviewer: @mgodwan: This is the reindexing call and is the same change I made before the override. @RS146BIJAY, did you modify this? If so, I can't see your modification.

Author: @Naarcha-AWS I think I had earlier added the right changes. This seems to have been modified by a recent commit.

Author: @Naarcha-AWS  Yes I modified it as per @mgodwan  comment. Let me push the changes again.

Reviewer: @RS146BIJAY: Don't. I already fixed it.

When an index is configured as an append-only index, the following operations will return an error:
- Document update call (Update API)
- Document delete call (Delete API)
- Update by query call
- Delete by query call

For the bulk API requests, below actions will return error for individual operation in the bulk api response
- All update, delete, or upsert actions
- Any index action with a custom document ID

Append-only indexes offer several advantages:
- Optimized performance because they eliminate costly updates/delete operations
- Optimized storage and segment merges because they eliminate soft deletes and version tracking
- Future optimizations like auto-rollovers and efficient warm tiering

Append-only indexes are ideal for immutable workloads, such as those containing log, metric, observability, or security event data, where data is not modified once ingested.

## Example request

The following example request creates a new index named `my-append-only-index` with all updates disabled:

```json
PUT /my-append-only-index
{
  "settings": {

>     "index.append_only.enabled": true

Reviewer 3: Can you call out that this is a final setting?

Reviewer 3: Maybe add it in considerations section

Reviewer: @mgodwan: I added a warning underneath the call example.
